---
title: "Learn how to dress and command power from Tár 2022"
date: 2026-02-27T15:38:11-06:00
draft: true
---

The academy nominated movie Tar (2022) tells a story of a fictional female conductor *Lydia Tár*. The film starts with Tár at the peak of her career (a protege of Leonard Bernstein, director of the Berlin Phil, finishing recording the last of her Mahler cycle). Some says the film is psychic, confusing, and somewhat creepy and haunting. (One of the question commonly search on Google about this movie is "**What the heck is Tar about**".)

The script is nice. Cate Blanchett did a great job. Music reference and orchestra scenes are highly accurate and professional. The movie's deep. Reviews discuss a lot on *Tár*'s implied psychological nuance, feminism and anti-misogyny, as of the modern art world's cancel culture, identity abuse (eg "I don't like Bach because he's straight and have 20 kids!"), and the long-argue about whether we should separate artist's personal conduct with their work, etc etc.

Cate Blanchett has interesting wardrobe in the movie. The designer called it the "power wardrobe".

> [Piano forte: Cate Blanchett strikes a chord with power chic fashion in Tár](https://www.theguardian.com/fashion/2023/jan/20/cate-blanchett-tar-costumes-power-chic-crescendo)
>
> Pinterest's [Cate blanchett tar outfits](https://www.pinterest.com/ideas/cate-blanchett-tar-outfits/909304731748/)

But it's not only uniqlos that gives her the confidence and complexity. They movie did a great job in showing the power play of Tar, because 

### Conductors are extraordinary leaders

An orchestra conductor lead 80-100 musicians who all are highly professional, if not snarky, professionals. But unlike CEO who can issue directives and fire people, a head of state who wields institutional authority, or a football coach who calls plays and makes substitutions — a conductor has none of those structural levers, yet must achieve real-time obedience, alignment, and excellence under the most exacting scrutiny imaginable. Every musician can instantly detect a bluff, or even worse we simply sloth through if it is not motivating enough. Waving on the podium is actually really the hardest job on an orchestra stage.

So how about iron fist? Historically, conducting was indeed "the last bastion of totalitarianism" ([Benjamin Zander](https://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/podcast/knowledge-at-wharton-podcast/boston-philharmonics-benjamin-zander-tapping-into-the-art-of-possibility/)). Eg. Karajan's eyes-closed autocracy, or Tosca***nono***'s legendary rages:

<div class="video-embed">
  <iframe
    src="//player.bilibili.com/player.html?isOutside=true&aid=842556715&bvid=BV1954y167qY&cid=248422512&p=1&autoplay=0"
    allowfullscreen>
  </iframe>
</div>

You cannot yell like this now. The contemporary model is even more exquisite. Eg. Claudio Abbado exemplifies the modern approach — "leadership meant to always act from reaction — to set and take up impulses, to create space and trust" [(Berliner Phi)](https://www.berliner-philharmoniker.de/en/stories/claudio-abbado/).

But it wasn't all roses — gentleness without decisiveness can erode authority. Note that the Berlin Phi wasn't all happy with Abbado — the musicians *wanted* to be led, they just didn't want to be bullied. Abbado's greatest work arguably came *after* he left Berlin, when he founded the Lucerne Festival Orchestra — an ensemble made up of friends, in which Abbado created an environment where he could feel treasured, accepted, and even loved, and came closer to the ideals pursued by every artist than under the traditional conditions in Milan, Vienna, and Berlin.

You cannot bully a great oboist into producing a transcendent swan lake introduction, or threaten a string section into playing with pixie dust during the Midsummer overture.
